[Music]
eleven modern things that existed long
before us it's a little-known fact but
some modern inventions actually appeared
centuries or even millennia ago claiming
that all ancient people were primitive
is a blatant injustice did our ancestors
have smartphones how accurate were their
predictions about robots we found 11
phenomena that had emerged much earlier
than we originally thought and as a
bonus we'll tell you when the modern
versions came along eleven prosthetics
and plastic surgery about 3000 BC the
first attempt to correct appearance
flaws date back to the earliest times
and they were pretty successful the
earliest known example is an Egyptian
prosthetic toe that was not just
aesthetic but also was functional
another example is from ancient India as
far back as 800 BC they could adjust
nose shape using the skin from the
forehead or cheeks the first time
plastic surgery was applied in the
modern times was right after the Great
War in 1917 the aim of it was to help
soldiers that sustained terrible facial
injuries
Timm sewage system about 2600 BC the
earliest sewage facilities belong to the
Indus Valley Civilisation in
mohenjo-daro one of their largest
settlements archaeologists found public
toilets and a city sewer system sewage
was also known in ancient Babylon some
Chinese cities and in Rome where it was
represented by a colossal engineering
project called cloaca Maxima greatest
sewer that has survived to this day for
the longest time the Roman knowledge was
ignored only around the middle of the
19th century when cities grew bigger and
the health risk from poor sewage systems
became apparent some of the ancient
technologies were used again ix battery
about 2,500 BC the Baghdad battery is a
ceramic pot containing a copper tube
with an iron rod inside replicas of this
battery are indeed capable of creating
some voltage perhaps the ancient
Babylonians knew the method of
galvanization for which these containers
were used although skeptics argue that
they only served to store scrolls
one of the first batteries that worked
as designed was the voltaic pile created
by an Italian scientist Alessandro Volta
this battery could continuously produce
an electric current eighth flamethrower
for 24 BC
the prototype of this formidable weapon
was used in the Battle of day Liam the
ancient fire thrower or Greek fire was a
copper tube used to project a
combustible liquid mixture compressed
air or large bellows served as a
buoyancy force these weapons were pretty
big and hard to move for centuries it
was used from time to time in various
naval battles but due to the recipe
being a secret these uses were extremely
rare in the modern age flame throwers
were reinvented in Germany not long
before the great war the main upgrade to
the Greek fire technology was the
transition to smaller sized weapons
suited for man held usage seven alarm
clock about 400 BC the Greek philosopher
Plato used a water clock that could emit
a sound signal to remind him that it was
time to begin his lectures water powered
alarms were further developed in ancient
Rome and the Middle East
mechanical striking clocks that were
able to chime at a certain time of the
day first appeared in China in the 8th
century AD and made their way to Europe
by the 14th century interestingly enough
unlike many other technologies on the
list alarm clocks didn't disappear after
they were invented for some time most of
them became public working atop of clock
towers but around the 15th century
personal alarm clocks made their
comeback
six robots 323 BC the prototypes of
modern robots were female figures
mounted on the lighthouse on the island
of Pharos at regular time intervals they
turned on and struck the bells at night
they made loud trumpeting sounds warning
seafarers of the proximity of the shore
much later in the 17th and 18th
centuries machines called automatons
gained popularity in Western Europe they
were clockwork mechanisms made to look
like humans or animals and capable of
performing various actions automatons
were a pretty popular entertainment for
the rich but they weren't seen as
something useful most people agreed that
the term robotics and with it the whole
scientific approach to robots was
created by the famous sci-fi author
Isaac Asimov in 1942 when he formulated
the Three Laws of Robotics five
automatic doors the 1st century AD
automatic temple doors were already
known in ancient Greece back then they
were run by hero's aeolipile the oldest
prototype of the steam engine the fire
was built on the altar under which pipes
carrying water were concealed the steam
activated a system of blocks connected
to the doors this created an illusion of
magic which was only to the priests
benefit
[Music]
surprisingly there's not much
information about any sorts of automatic
doors until their modern day version was
reinvented in the middle of the 20th
century for vending machine the first
century AD in our time bending machines
can sell anything imaginable from toys
to freshly baked pizza back in the day
you could only buy holy water for
washing your hands and temples from them
after depositing a coin into the device
it would set in motion a mechanism that
issued a portion of water to the
customer modern-day vending machines
were created in the 1880s and were not
designed to sell snacks or soda what
they did was automated selling of post
cards and envelopes at post offices
three odometer also the first century AD
an instrument for measuring the distance
travelled by a vehicle or odometer was
probably invented by Archimedes of
Syracuse his odometer looked like a
small set of wheels with numbers on them
that showed the length of the distance
traveled as the vehicle moved
independently of Archimedes a similar
device was invented by the Chinese
philosopher and scholar zhang heng
throughout history the need to measure
distances rarely went away and so
they've been regularly used and improved
since the 17th century they became
standard equipment for cars in 1925 to
size Moscow 132 ad another invention of
Shang hang is a sized Moscow that could
react to an upcoming earthquake it was a
rather peculiar but precise construction
a bronze ball was projected from one of
eight tubes shaped as dragon heads and
it fell into the mouth of a
corresponding metal toad that sat under
them indicating the direction where the
shocks were coming from what these
seismic Oaks didn't show was the
strength of the earthquake in 1935
American seismologist Charles Richter
developed a scale to define the
magnitude of an earthquake we know it as
the Richter scale one sunglasses the
10th century it is a common belief that
sunglasses were invented by the Inuit
who had to protect their eyes from snow
blindness their sunglasses didn't have
actual glass
they were walrus ivory goggles with
narrow slits the first sunglasses with
glass smoky quartz actually appeared
later in 12th century China they were
used to hide the wearer's facial
expression rather than as protection
against sunlight funny enough but even
at the beginning of the last century
sunglasses still weren't used mainly as
protection from the Sun some sources
suggest that they were popular among
movie stars it was easier to avoid fan
recognition that way sunglasses were
first mass-produced only in 1929 by Sam
Foster
he discovered that the beachgoers of the
USA would gladly buy his product to
protect their eyes from the Sun also we
prepared two amazing bonuses bonus one
mr. pyncheon and the settling of
Springfield a 1933 painting by the
Italian American artist Umberto Romano
depicts quite what the title says mr.
pension founder of the town stands in
the center of the scene and appears to
be giving out various town management
orders what makes the painting curious
is a Native American man sitting in the
foreground and holding a rectangular
object that is pretty similar to a
modern smartphone it is probably just a
small mirror but wouldn't life be more
fun if we found out iPhones are not as
innovative as they're thought to be
bonus number two another enigma that
haunts the minds of conspiracy fans the
facade of the 300 year old new cathedral
of Salamanca Spain is adorned with an
astronaut sculpture did our ancestors
fly into space or meet
in spacesuits in this case the truth is
even simpler the figure of the astronaut
was added during the restoration of the
Cathedral in 1992 so the whole thing is
just someone's joke as is another figure
representing a faun with an ice-cream in
his hand
[Music]
don't forget to click subscribe and hit
the like button below the video to join
us on the bright side of life
you